Update Getting started Section with New Docker and Kubernetes Tutorial (#11714)
containous/traefik: docs/content/getting-started/docker.md

---

# Getting Started with Docker and Traefik

Docker is a first-class citizen in Traefik, offering native support for Docker containers and services. Whether you're using Docker Compose or running containers directly, Traefik provides a seamless experience for managing your Docker traffic.

This guide shows you how to:

- Install Traefik using Docker
- Expose the Traefik dashboard
- Deploy a sample application
- Configure basic routing

## Prerequisites

- Docker 
- Docker Compose (optional)

## Install Traefik

### Using Docker Compose

Create a Docker Compose file. This configuration:

- Exposes ports 80 and 8080. 
- Enables the Docker provider
- Configures the dashboard with basic settings. Port 8080 serves the dashboard because we enabled `--api.insecure=true` (development use only)
- Mounts the Docker socket for container discovery

```yaml
# docker-compose.yml
services:
  traefik:
    image: traefik:v3.3
    command:
      - "--api.dashboard=true"
      - "--api.insecure=true"
      - "--providers.docker=true"
      - "--providers.docker.exposedByDefault=false"
      - "--entrypoints.web.address=:80"
      - "--entrypoints.websecure.address=:443"
    ports:
      - "80:80"

>       - "800:800"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - "8080:8080"
```

      - "443:443"
    volumes:
      - /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock
```

Start Traefik:

```bash
docker-compose up -d
```

### Using Docker CLI

> Alternatively, you can run Traefik directly with Docker. This command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Alternatively, we can run Traefik directly with Docker. This command:
```

Author: For this tutorial, I'd prefer using "You" instead of "We" because the tutorial is showcasing how a beginner can get started with Traefik proxy. 

It feels more personal and I want to directly address the readers.

- Exposes ports 80 and 8080 for web traffic and dashboard access
- Mounts the configuration file and Docker socket
- Uses the same configuration as the Docker Compose example

Create a configuration file:

```yaml
# traefik.yml
api:
  dashboard: true
  insecure: true
entryPoints:
  web:
    address: ":80"
  websecure:
    address: ":443"
providers:
  docker:
    exposedByDefault: false
```

Start Traefik:

```bash
docker run -d \
  -p 80:80 \
  -p 8080:8080 \
  -v $PWD/traefik.yml:/etc/traefik/traefik.yml \
  -v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock \
  traefik:v3.3
```

## Expose the Dashboard

> Because we explicitly enabled insecure mode, the [dashboard](../reference/install-configuration/api-dashboard.md) is reachable on port 8080 without authentication. **Do not enable this flag in production**.

Reviewer: Could we add a link to "how to secure the dashboard" section: https://doc.traefik.io/traefik/operations/dashboard/#secure-mode
WDYT?

Author: This makes sense but i'm skeptical about including it because the next section of the docs i'm working on will include how to setup traefik properly, it'll explain how to expose it with basicAuth. So i'd prefer to link that page instead, WDYT?

Reviewer: Makes sense :+1:

You can access the dashboard at:

[http://localhost:8080/dashboard/](http://localhost:8080/dashboard/)

![Traefik Dashboard Screenshot](../assets/img/getting-started/traefik-dashboard.png)

## Deploy a Sample Application

Create a whoami service:

```yaml
# whoami.yml
services:
  whoami:
    image: traefik/whoami
    labels:
      - "traefik.enable=true"
      - "traefik.http.routers.whoami.rule=Host(`whoami.localhost`)"
```

Apply the configuration:

```bash
docker-compose -f whoami.yml up -d
```

> ## Test Your Setup

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Test this Setup
```

> You can use the following curl command to verify that the application is correctly exposed:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We can use the following curl command to verify that the application is correctly exposed:
```

```bash
curl http://whoami.localhost

Hostname: 068c0a29a8b7
IP: 127.0.0.1
IP: ::1
IP: 192.168.147.3
RemoteAddr: 192.168.147.2:56006
GET / HTTP/1.1
Host: whoami.localhost
User-Agent: curl/8.7.1
Accept: */*
Accept-Encoding: gzip
X-Forwarded-For: 192.168.147.1
X-Forwarded-Host: whoami.localhost
X-Forwarded-Port: 80
X-Forwarded-Proto: http
X-Forwarded-Server: 9232cdd4fd6c
X-Real-Ip: 192.168.147.1
```

> You can also [http://whoami.localhost](http://whoami.localhost) in your browser to test the application:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We can also open [http://whoami.localhost](http://whoami.localhost) in a browser to test the application:
```

![whoami application Screenshot](../assets/img/getting-started/whoami-localhost.png)

> If you navigate to the **HTTP Routers** section of the Traefik dashboard, you can see that the `whoami.localhost` route is managed by the Traefik Docker provider:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If we navigate to the **HTTP Routers** section of the Traefik dashboard, we can see that the `whoami.localhost` route is managed by the Traefik Docker provider:
```

![Traefik Dashboard HTTP Routers Section Screenshot](../assets/img/getting-started/docker-router.png)

> That's it! You've successfully deployed Traefik and configured routing in Docker.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
That's it! We've successfully deployed Traefik and configured routing in Docker.
```

---
title: "Docker and Traefik Quick Start"
description: "Deploy Traefik in Docker and expose your first service"
---

# Getting Started with Docker and Traefik

Docker is a first-class citizen in Traefik, offering native support for Docker containers and services. Whether you're using Docker Compose or running containers directly, Traefik provides a seamless experience for managing your Docker traffic.

This guide shows you how to:

- Install Traefik using Docker
- Expose the Traefik dashboard
- Deploy a sample application
- Configure basic routing

## Prerequisites

- Docker 
- Docker Compose (optional)

## Install Traefik

### Using Docker Compose

Create a Docker Compose file. This configuration:

- Exposes ports 80 and 8080. 
- Enables the Docker provider
- Configures the dashboard with basic settings. Port 8080 serves the dashboard because we enabled `--api.insecure=true` (development use only)
- Mounts the Docker socket for container discovery

```yaml
# docker-compose.yml
services:
  traefik:
    image: traefik:v3.4
    command:
      - "--api.dashboard=true"
      - "--api.insecure=true"
      - "--providers.docker=true"

>       - "--providers.docker.exposedByDefault=false"

Author: i agree since its a getting started guide

      - "--entrypoints.web.address=:80"

>       - "--entrypoints.websecure.address=:443"

Author: i've taken off the websecure entry point
